Best practices guide on repo structure and CI/CD (#3835)
astronomer/docs: astro/best-practices/repo-structure.mdx

---
title: 'Organizing code for CI/CD'
sidebar_label: 'Organizing code for CI/CD'
id: repo-structure
---

import MostCommonBadge from '@site/src/components/MostCommonBadge';

Astro supports a range of options when it comes to organizing your project code and setting up Continuous Integration and Continuous Delivery (CI/CD) pipelines for automated deploys to Astro. 

Astronomer recommends keeping in mind the needs of your team and structure of your organization as you explore the options.

This guide covers the options along with their pros and cons, so you can choose the best option for your team.

## Feature overview

> Astro supports a number of CI/CD strategies. You can:
> 1. Host one Astro project in one Git repository for deployment to one Astro Deployment (one-to-one).
> 2. Separate your DAGs from other files and maintain multiple repositories for one Astro Deployment (many-to-one).
> 3. Host one Astro project in one repository for deployment to multiple Astro Deployments (one-to-many).
> 4. Host multiple Astro projects in one repository for deployment to multiple Astro Deployments (one-to-many).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Astro supports a number of CI/CD strategies. You can:
1. Host one Astro project in one repository for deployment to multiple Astro Deployments (one-to-many), based on branches.
2. Host one Astro project in one Git repository for deployment to one Astro Deployment (one-to-one).
3. Separate your DAGs from other files and maintain multiple repositories for one Astro Deployment (many-to-one).
4. Host multiple Astro projects in one repository for deployment to multiple Astro Deployments (one-to-many).
```
They should match the order of the sections, I feel like.
You didn't mention #4, below 🤷

## Best practice guidance

Implementing CI/CD is a general software development best practice that enables automated building, testing, merging, and delivery of code. If you haven't yet implemented CI/CD pipelines for your Deployments, benefits of doing so include:
- Faster feedback loops.
- Improved code quality.
- Streamlined development workflows.
- Consistent deployments across environments.
- Less time spent getting code to production.
- Enhanced collaboration.

> All the CI/CD strategies that Astro supports require Git plus either [GitHub](https://github.com/) or [GitLab](https://about.gitlab.com/). Implementation of version control is a longstanding software development best practice that enables:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Implementation of version control is a longstanding software development best practice that enables:
```
That's not true. We have templates for plenty of other systems and work with **any** system that can just run the astro CLI

Author: Thanks. I received other feedback critical of mentioning other VCS options because Git is so common. But it makes sense to revert.

Reviewer: Those are all git based, though :) 
We don't have any SVN CICD templates. 
Just there's _**lots**_ of online git repository services.

Specifically, I think you should just remove being specific about github/gitlab - It's confusing. 

Not that you need to mention SVN or etc

- Simultaneous collaboration.
- Easy review of code changes.
- Safe and secure experimentation on new features and fixes.
- Improved traceability and auditing.

With a version control system in place, you can set up CI/CD by following the guidance in [Develop a CI/CD workflow for deploying code to Astro](https://astronomer.io/docs/astro/set-up-ci-cd). The option you choose for organizing the code in your shared repository and deploying to Astro should reflect the size and needs of your team. [Deployment API tokens](https://www.astronomer.io/docs/astro/deployment-api-tokens) are required for implementing CI/CD for automated deploys to Astro. 

Once you have set up CI/CD, Astronomer recommends [enabling CI/CD enforcement](https://www.astronomer.io/docs/astro/set-up-ci-cd#enforce-cicd) so that code pushes can be completed only when using a Deployment or Workspace token.

### Option 1: One repository with multiple permanent branches to multiple Deployments with CI/CD

<MostCommonBadge/>

> When your DAGs are critical to your business, the ability to test your DAGs is critical, as well. Setting up automated deploys from multiple permanent branches of a single repository allows you to implement a robust testing regime for the code you intend to deploy to production. Astronomer recommends this approach when:
> - You have business-critical DAGs.
> - You can set up and maintain a somewhat complex CI/CD pipeline.
> - You have separate teams managing Deployments and maintaining the DAGs that run on them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When your DAGs are critical to your business, the ability to test your DAGs is critical, as well. Setting up automated deploys from multiple permanent branches of a single repository allows you to implement a robust testing regime for the code you intend to deploy to production. 
```
Not sure any of those are really required

This strategy requires:
- One Astro project.
- One Astro Workspace for your project.
- At least two permanent branches in your repository, each representing an environment. Astro recommends naming the branches `main` and `dev`.

> - At least two Astro Deployments.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- At least two Astro Deployments, each representing an environment.
```

Pros of this approach:
- You can test code changes to your DAGs in an isolated environment on Astro before deploying the changes to production.
- It is scaleable: you can map additional branches to additional Deployments, allowing for more testing or ephemeral Deployments for feature development. See [Manage dev Deployments on Astro](manage-dev-deployments). Also, if you work at a larger organization, you can create a Workspace and Astro project for each team or business use case.

> - It supports separate environment configurations. If you use Snowflake, for example, your development Deployment on Astro can use a virtual data warehouse for development (`DWH Dev`), and your production Deployment can use a different virtual data warehouse for production (`DWH Prod`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- It supports separate environment configurations. For example, your development Deployment query a development database, and your production Deployment can query a production database without needing complex logic to switch between the two.
```

Cons of this approach:

> - Restricting access to Astro settings or to particular Astro projects is more complicated to implement and maintain in subdirectories.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
Not sure that makes sense? Both the "subdirectories" and the access piece feel incorrect

- Dependencies and environments might be more difficult to manage, to the extent that they differ from project to project.

:::tip

For more guidance on setting up CI/CD for deploys to multiple Deployments from a single repository, see [Multiple environments](https://www.astronomer.io/docs/astro/set-up-ci-cd#multiple-environments).

:::

> ### Option 2: One repository to one or multiple Deployments

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Option 2: One repository to one Deployment
```
One repository to multiple deployments is above. 
This would need to be a team that just has a prod version of Airflow and nothing else.
I'm not entirely sure we should recommend this at all, but 🤷 that might just be me

> Creating a single Git repository for each Astro project is the strategy Astronomer recommends for smaller teams in organizations where a single team is responsible for both developing DAGs and maintaining Deployments on Astro.

Reviewer: This would also apply to the prior strategy

This strategy requires:
- One Astro project.
- One Workspace for your project.
- One repository.
- One or multiple Astro Deployments.

Pros of this approach:
- Your code history and project configuration are centralized, making it easy for developers to contribute changes to DAGs and Deployments while avoiding synchronization problems across files.
- You don't have to maintain multiple environments for managing dependencies and testing DAGs.

Cons of this approach:
- You can't easily restrict access to sensitive project settings.

> - You can't take this approach and simultaneously collect DAGs used in multiple Deployments in a single repository.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
1) Can't easily. You can.
2) This is about one deployment, so that doesn't even really make sense to bring up?

:::info 

Astronomer maintains guides with code templates for a number of popular CI/CD tools. For details about setting up CI/CD workflows, see:

- [Automate actions on Astro](https://www.astronomer.io/docs/astro/automation-overview).
- [Deploy code with the Astro GitHub integration](https://www.astronomer.io/docs/astro/deploy-github-integration).

:::

### Option 3: Multiple repositories to one Deployment

> A common use case for multiple repositories is keeping configuration code separate from DAG code. Astronomer recommends this approach when:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A common use case for multiple repositories is keeping Astro Project configuration (such as the `Dockerfile`, `requirements.txt`, or Deployment Configuration-as-Code) separate from DAG code. Astronomer recommends this approach when:
```

- You have strict security requirements for who can manage Deployments.
- You want to minimize complexity for project contributors, automate the creation of Deployments, or manage Deployments more efficiently.
- You can set up and maintain a somewhat complex CI/CD pipeline.

This strategy requires:
- One Astro project.
- One Workspace for your project.
- Multiple repositories.
- One Astro Deployment.
- [**DAG-only deploys**](https://www.astronomer.io/docs/astro/deploy-dags#enable-or-disable-dag-only-deploys-on-a-deployment) on the target Deployment and CI/CD pipeline setup for both Git repositories.

Pros of this approach:

> - You have more options when it comes to maintaining Deployments and deploying code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> - Managing Astro settings is potentially much easier, as keeping configuration code in a separate repository enables the use of a single repository for configuring multiple Deployments.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Keeping project configuration separate from DAG Code enables the use of a single repository for configuring multiple Deployments.
```

- The possibility of accidental changes to Astro Deployment settings is minimized.

Cons of this approach:

> - You must keep any local copies of an Astro project synchronized with multiple repositories in order to test Deployment code locally and ensure that updates from your configuration repository do not erase your DAGs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- You must keep any local copies of an Astro project synchronized with multiple repositories in order to test Deployment code locally.
```

> - Team members might have inconsistencies in their local environments if they lack access to the configuration repository. For this reason, Astronomer recommends [setting up a dev Deployment](manage-dev-deployments) where DAG authors can see and modify project configurations for testing purposes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Team members might have inconsistencies in their local environments if they lack access to the configuration repository. For this reason, Astronomer recommends [setting up a Dev Deployment](manage-dev-deployments) where DAG authors can see and modify project configurations for testing purposes.
```

---
title: 'Organizing code for CI/CD'
sidebar_label: 'Organizing code for CI/CD'
id: repo-structure
---

export const Highlight = ({children, color}) => (
  <span
    style={{
      backgroundColor: color,
      borderRadius: '4px',
      color: '#fff',
      padding: '0.2rem 0.5rem',
    }}>
    {children}
  </span>
);

Astro supports a range of options when it comes to organizing your project code and setting up Continuous Integration and Continuous Delivery (CI/CD) pipelines for automated deploys to Astro. 

Astronomer recommends keeping in mind the needs of your team and structure of your organization as you explore the options.

This guide covers the options along with their pros and cons, so you can choose the best option for your team.

## Feature overview

Astro supports a number of CI/CD strategies. You can:

> 1. Maintain a *single* Git repository for all files in a *single* Astro Deployment (one-to-one).

Reviewer: this is either incorrect or confusingly worded.

often, you'll have
- One git repo, many branches
- One Astro Project
- Many Astro Deployments (dev, prod, etc)

2. Separate your DAGs from other files and maintain *multiple* Git repositories for a *single* Astro Deployment (many-to-one).

> 3. Host multiple Astro projects in a *single* repository for deployment to *multiple* Astro Deployments (one-to-many).

Reviewer: sentence might need copyedit

## Best practice guidance

Implementing CI/CD is a general software development best practice that enables automated building, testing, merging, and delivery of code. If you haven't yet implemented CI/CD pipelines for your Deployments, benefits of doing so include:
- Faster feedback loops.
- Improved code quality.
- Streamlined development workflows.
- Consistent deployments across environments.
- Less time spent getting code to production.
- Enhanced collaboration.

> All the CI/CD strategies that Astro supports require utilization of a version control tool such as [GitHub](https://github.com/) or [GitLab](https://about.gitlab.com/). Implementation of version control is a longstanding software development best practice that enables:

Reviewer: To be pedantic - the version control tool here is `git`. Github and Gitlab are hosted providers for git repositories. Might need to reword

Reviewer: I'm also not even sure if we'd work with other vcs tools?? I ... feel like we would but they are so uncommon these days. I don't think I've ever seen SVN + CICD in the wild :)

- Simultaneous collaboration.
- Easy review of code changes.
- Safe and secure experimentation on new features and fixes.
- Improved traceability and auditing.

With a version control system in place, you can set up CI/CD by following the guidance in [Develop a CI/CD workflow for deploying code to Astro](https://astronomer.io/docs/astro/set-up-ci-cd). The option you choose for organizing the code in your shared repository and deploying to Astro should reflect the size and needs of your team. [Deployment API tokens](https://www.astronomer.io/docs/astro/deployment-api-tokens) are required for implementing CI/CD for automated deploys to Astro. 

Once you have set up CI/CD, Astronomer recommends [enabling CI/CD enforcement](https://www.astronomer.io/docs/astro/set-up-ci-cd#enforce-cicd) so that code pushes can be completed only when using a Deployment or Workspace token.

> ### Option 1: one repository to one Deployment

Reviewer: Copyedit, the caps feel weird. And repeating nitpick above that "one deployment" is wrong

> Creating a single Git repository for each Astro project is the strategy Astronomer recommends for smaller teams (under 30 members) in organizations where a single team is responsible for both developing DAGs and maintaining Deployments on Astro.

Reviewer: I'm not sure I agree on the "size" comment here, or the wording is throwing me a bit. This approach works for a large customer with thousands of developers _**but**_ you would often have a different Astro Project for different teams - does that fit with what you're saying here?

Maybe remove the 'smaller teams' and '(30 members)'. I don't think there exists a development team with dozens/hundreds of members.

This strategy requires:
- One Astro project.
- One Workspace for your project.
- One repository.
- One Astro Deployment.

Pros of this approach:
- Your code history and project configuration are centralized, making it easy for developers to contribute changes to DAGs and Deployments while avoiding synchronization problems across files.
- You don't have to maintain multiple environments for managing dependencies and testing DAGs.

Cons of this approach:
- You can't easily restrict access to sensitive project settings.

> - You can't take this approach and simultaneously collect DAGs used in multiple Deployments in a single repository.

Reviewer: can't _easily_ ? You could still package stuff with this approach, and pull in the package. Though I don't think I've seen people package centralized DAGs. (I don't think I've seen centralized DAGs often, regardless)

Author: @fritz-astronomer  My thought here was that it's more involved to restrict access at the subdirectory level in GitHub than at the repo level. From that perspective, does the bullet work, or do you think it should still be changed?

Reviewer: I'd still say "can't easily" (or something) rather than have someone see "can't" stop something they needed to do

> - You can't also keep Deployment configuration code separate from DAG code, which is required when you want to [manage Deployments programmatically](https://www.astronomer.io/docs/astro/manage-deployments-as-code) and when you want to restrict access to Deployment settings.

Reviewer: Not entirely following this last part?

You could have a deployment with yaml or terraform in one repo, and dags in the other, and separate people have access to each repo? I suppose that makes sense.
I've recommended customers configure Github to reject commits to certain files by non-CODEOWNERS, but that's a pretty specific feature to that platform

Author: Deleted the third bullet here

:::info 

Astronomer maintains guides with code templates for a number of popular CI/CD tools. For details about setting up CI/CD workflows, see:

- [Automate actions on Astro](https://www.astronomer.io/docs/astro/automation-overview).
- [Deploy code with the Astro GitHub integration](https://www.astronomer.io/docs/astro/deploy-github-integration).

:::

### Option 2: multiple repositories to one Deployment

> A common use case for multiple repositories is keeping configuration code separate from DAG code. Astronomer recommends this approach when:

Reviewer: maybe worth mentioning something like "You may have separate teams for managing deployments and maintaining the DAGs that run on them" here

- You have strict security requirements for who can update particular project files, such as Astro Deployment settings.
- You want to minimize complexity for project contributors, automate Deployment creation, or manage Deployments more efficiently.

> - You can set up and maintain a somewhat complex CI/CD pipeline.

Reviewer: wording feels clunky

- Multiple repositories.
- One Astro Deployment.
- [**DAG-only deploys**](https://www.astronomer.io/docs/astro/deploy-dags#enable-or-disable-dag-only-deploys-on-a-deployment) on the target Deployment and CI/CD pipeline setup for both Git repositories.

Pros of this approach:
- You have more options when it comes to maintaining Deployments and deploying code.
- Managing Astro settings is potentially much easier, as keeping configuration code in a separate repository enables the use of a single repository for configuring multiple Deployments.
- The possibility of accidental changes to Astro Deployment settings is minimized.

Cons of this approach:
- You must keep any local copies of an Astro project synchronized with multiple repositories in order to test Deployment code locally and ensure that updates from your configuration repository do not erase your DAGs.
- Team members might have inconsistencies in their local environments if they lack access to the configuration repository. For this reason, Astronomer recommends [setting up a dev Deployment](manage-dev-deployments) where DAG authors can see and modify project configurations for testing purposes.

:::info

> This strategy is required when [configuring Deployments programmatically](https://www.astronomer.io/docs/astro/manage-deployments-as-code).

Reviewer: That's not true

Author: Deleted the block

:::

> ### Option 3: one repository with multiple permanent branches to multiple Deployments with CI/CD <Highlight color="#9478d2">Most common</Highlight>

Reviewer: if this is most common, we should put it first

The other wording made it sound different
> 3. Host multiple Astro projects in a *single* repository for deployment to *multiple* Astro Deployments (one-to-many).

You can have, and I've seen, multiple teams with multiple astro projects in one repo
```
\
| -- astro_project_a
| -- astro_project_b
\ -- -- .github/actions.workflow.yaml
\ -- -- dags/
\ -- -- Dockerfile
| -- astro_project_c
```
etc

---
title: 'Choose a code repository strategy'
sidebar_label: 'Repository strategy'
id: repo-structure
---

import MostCommonBadge from '@site/src/components/MostCommonBadge';

Astro supports a range of options when it comes to organizing your project code. 

This guide covers the options along with their pros and cons, so you can choose the best option for your team.

## Feature overview

Astro supports two basic repository strategies. You can:
1. Use a **monorepo**: host an Astro project in one repository for deploys to one or multiple Astro Deployments, based, for example, on permanent dev and prod branches with their own Deployments or a single permanent branch. Astronomer recommends this approach for most teams.
2. Use a **multirepo**: separate your DAGs from other files in your project and maintain multiple repositories linked to one or multiple Astro Deployments. Astronomer recommends this approach for teams needing to meet strict security requirements and teams planning to automate the creation of Deployments.

## Best practice guidance

> In addition to choosing a repository strategy suited to your use case, Astronomer recommends implementing CI/CD and version control. 

Reviewer 2: Should we update this section to not start with a paragraph about CI/CD? Maybe remove this and start wtih the "implementing version control"

Author: Changed this as you were reviewing. WDYT of the latest? Should we still cut the CI/CD stuff here?

Author: @kentdanas I moved the vcs and CI/CD stuff to a new section at the end. happy to cut it, but wondering what you think of this approach.

Reviewer 2: @merobi-hub this is much better, I think it looks great! Good to publish from my side
